---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: VIM tips
author:
  display_name: Adam Stokes
  login: adam.stokes
  email: adam.stokes@gmail.com
  url: ''
author_login: adam.stokes
author_email: adam.stokes@gmail.com
wordpress_id: 111
wordpress_url: http://beta.astokes.org/vim-tips/
date: '2005-08-23 00:00:59 -0400'
date_gmt: '2005-08-23 00:00:59 -0400'
categories:
- What's New
tags: []
---
<p>Just thought I would post some things I find helpful when working with<br />
VIM. Remember if you are running Fedora Core you can install VIM with<br />
the following command: Also for those curious, here is my vimrc file.</p>
<pre><code>  yum install vim-enhanced
</code></pre>
<p>That should pick up the dependencies as necessary.</p>
<p><strong>Setting line numbers and word wrap</strong><br />
Ok to get started I like to have line numbers and no word wrapping in<br />
my code. Lets first create our rc file for vim (<strong><em>~/.vimrc</em></strong>)</p>
<p>Now we are going to add the following 2 lines for the above:</p>
<pre><code>  set nu!
  set wrap!
</code></pre>
<p><strong>Mapping key binds</strong></p>
<p>I like to use buffer windows for editing several files and so I need<br />
a quick way of switching from windows to windows.</p>
<pre><code>  map &#38;lt;F9&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bprevious&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
  map &#38;lt;F10&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bnext&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
  imap &#38;lt;F9&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bprevious&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
  imap &#38;lt;F10&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bnext&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
</code></pre>
<p><strong><em>imap</em></strong> is for switching buffers in insert mode. </p>
<p><strong>General commands and usage within VIM</strong></p>
<p>Basically from here on all commands can be typed while in VIM by<br />
starting the command with &#39;:&#39;, for example,</p>
<pre><code>  :color elflord
</code></pre>
<p>This will force VIM to set a general color and for syntax highlighting<br />
purposes.</p>
<p><strong>Simple search and replace</strong></p>
<p>Search and replace is fairly straight forward. Normally I will<br />
just start at the beginning of a document and search the whole<br />
thing replacing as necessary. To do so type the following:</p>
<pre><code>  :%s/word-to-search/replace-with/g
</code></pre>
<p>Now if you wish to just search a line and replace whats in the line:</p>
<pre><code>  :s/word-to-search/replace-with/g
</code></pre>
<p>Please note that it is important to end the search string with <strong>/g</strong>.</p>
<p><strong>Commenting a section of text anywhere in the file</strong></p>
<p>First mark the top of the section you wish to comment out by moving<br />
your cursor to that section and type <strong>ma</strong>. Next move to the end<br />
of the section you wish to comment and type <strong>mb</strong>. Finally get into<br />
command mode by hitting <strong>:</strong> and comment that block of text by<br />
typing:</p>
<pre><code>  :&#39;a,&#39;b s/^/#/g
</code></pre>
<p>You may also do this in visual mode by hitting <strong>v</strong> and hilighting<br />
the lines you wish to comment out and typing:</p>
<pre><code>  :&#39;a,&#39;b s/^/#/g
</code></pre>
<p><strong>Turning tabs into spaces</strong></p>
<pre><code>  :set expandtab
</code></pre>
<p>To convert all existing tabs to spaces</p>
<pre><code>  :retab
</code></pre>
<p>Below are links I used for reference:</p>
<p><a href=&#34;http://www.rayninfo.co.uk/vimtips.html&#34;>vim-tips</a></p>
<p><a href=&#34;http://www.nuxified.org/vi_survival_guide&#34;>vim-survival-guide</a></p>
