---
title: VIM tips
author: Adam Stokes
layout: post
permalink: /vim-tips/
categories:
  - "What's New"
---
Just thought I would post some things I find helpful when working with  
VIM. Remember if you are running Fedora Core you can install VIM with  
the following command: Also for those curious, here is my vimrc file.

      yum install vim-enhanced
    

That should pick up the dependencies as necessary.

**Setting line numbers and word wrap**  
Ok to get started I like to have line numbers and no word wrapping in  
my code. Lets first create our rc file for vim (***~/.vimrc***)

Now we are going to add the following 2 lines for the above:

      set nu!
      set wrap!
    

**Mapping key binds**

I like to use buffer windows for editing several files and so I need  
a quick way of switching from windows to windows.

      map &#38;lt;F9&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bprevious&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
      map &#38;lt;F10&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bnext&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
      imap &#38;lt;F9&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bprevious&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
      imap &#38;lt;F10&#38;gt; &#38;lt;esc&#38;gt;:bnext&#38;lt;cr&#38;gt;
    

***imap*** is for switching buffers in insert mode. 

**General commands and usage within VIM**

Basically from here on all commands can be typed while in VIM by  
starting the command with ':', for example,

      :color elflord
    

This will force VIM to set a general color and for syntax highlighting  
purposes.

**Simple search and replace**

Search and replace is fairly straight forward. Normally I will  
just start at the beginning of a document and search the whole  
thing replacing as necessary. To do so type the following:

      :%s/word-to-search/replace-with/g
    

Now if you wish to just search a line and replace whats in the line:

      :s/word-to-search/replace-with/g
    

Please note that it is important to end the search string with **/g**.

**Commenting a section of text anywhere in the file**

First mark the top of the section you wish to comment out by moving  
your cursor to that section and type **ma**. Next move to the end  
of the section you wish to comment and type **mb**. Finally get into  
command mode by hitting **:** and comment that block of text by  
typing:

      :&#39;a,&#39;b s/^/#/g
    

You may also do this in visual mode by hitting **v** and hilighting  
the lines you wish to comment out and typing:

      :&#39;a,&#39;b s/^/#/g
    

**Turning tabs into spaces**

      :set expandtab
    

To convert all existing tabs to spaces

      :retab
    

Below are links I used for reference:

<a href="http://www.rayninfo.co.uk/vimtips.html">vim-tips</a>

<a href="http://www.nuxified.org/vi\_survival\_guide">vim-survival-guide</a>